KYIV/LVIV, Ukraine, March 16 (Reuters) - New talk of compromise from both Moscow and Kyiv on a status for Ukraine outside of NATO lifted hope on Wednesday for a potential breakthrough after three weeks of war.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said negotiations were becoming "more realistic", while Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said there was "some hope for compromise".
The Kremlin said the sides were discussing status for Ukraine similar to that of Austria or Sweden, both members of the European Union that are outside the NATO military alliance. Ukraine's chief negotiator said it would give Kyiv binding international security guarantees to prevent future attacks.



Sponsored by Energy Market Authority (EMA)
Power Engineering CareersEver wondered what a power engineering professional does? Find out more about the meaningful, exciting and impactful role they play in powering up Singapore, and how you can join them on this journey. #powerengineeringprofessionals #publicservice #meaningful #impactful #exciting #careers
Learn more

Though the war still ground on with Ukrainian civilians trapped in cities under Russian bombardment, the signs of compromise sent relief through global financial markets. Shares in Germany - Russia's biggest energy market - were up 3.4%.
Three weeks into the invasion, Russian troops have been halted at the gates of Kyiv, having taken heavy losses and failed to seize any of Ukraine's biggest cities in a war Western officials say Moscow thought it would win within days.



Sponsored by Singtel
3 considerations when choosing an Internet service providerConsistent Internet performance is critical to a cloud-ready business. In this webinar, Singtel’s Director of Business Products, Gina Chua, shares 3 key considerations for choosing the right Internet service provider (ISP) for building a strong hybrid network.
Learn more

Ukrainian officials had expressed hope this week that the war could end sooner than expected. Talks were due to resume on Wednesday by video link for a third straight day, the first time they have lasted more than a single day.
"The meetings continue, and, I am informed, the positions during the negotiations already sound more realistic. But time is still needed for the decisions to be in the interests of Ukraine," Zelenskiy said in a video address overnight.



Sponsored by Singtel
Why does “Middle Mile” matter?What is the “middle mile”? How can you leverage it to avoid congestion and effectively route your Internet traffic? Find out in our latest webinar.  
Learn more

Later on Wednesday, he said Ukrainians must fight to "defend our state, our life, our Ukrainian life," but he also emphasised negotiations for "a just but fair peace for Ukraine, real security guarantees that will work."
UKRAINE SHIFTS
On Tuesday, Zelenskiy said Ukraine could accept international security guarantees that stopped short of its longstanding aim to join NATO, seen as a major shift.
Keeping Ukraine out of the Western military alliance was one of Russia's main demands in the months before it launched what it calls a "special operation" to disarm and "denazify" Ukraine.
"The negotiations are not easy for obvious reasons," Russia's Lavrov told media outlet RBC news. "But nevertheless, there is some hope of reaching a compromise."
"Neutral status is now being seriously discussed along, of course, with security guarantees," Lavrov said. "There are absolutely specific formulations which in my view are close to agreement."
Both sides painted only broad outlines in public of a proposed compromise.
Vladimir Medinsky, Russia's chief negotiator, told state TV: "Ukraine is offering an Austrian or Swedish version of a neutral demilitarised state, but at the same time a state with its own army and navy."
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said of that idea: "This is a variant that is currently being discussed and which could really be seen as a compromise."

Austria and Sweden both have small militaries equipped to cooperate with NATO armies. They are the biggest of six EU members outside NATO which include Russia's neighbour Finland, whose Cold War-era non-aligned status has been rejected as a model by Kyiv as offering insufficient protection.
Ukraine's chief peace negotiator, Zelenskiy aide Mykhailo Podolyak, described the model as "A rigid agreement with a number of guarantor states undertaking clear legal obligations to actively prevent attacks."
HOPE
Ukraine's staunch resistance on the battlefield and Western sanctions that have isolated Russia from the world economy have raised Kyiv's hopes that Moscow would make concessions.
Though Russia has long been calling for Ukraine to be kept out of NATO, Kyiv and its allies have said Moscow's true aim was to overthrow the pro-Western, elected leaders of a country President Vladimir Putin dismisses as an artificial state.
Podlolyak tweeted before Wednesday's talks that Ukrainian military counteroffensives had "radically changed the parties' dispositions".
Britain said Russian forces were trapped on roads, struggling to cope with Ukrainian terrain and suffering from a failure to gain control of the air.
"The tactics of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have adeptly exploited Russia's lack of manoeuvre, frustrating the Russian advance and inflicting heavy losses on the invading forces," it said.
THREE MILLION REFUGEES
Europe's biggest invasion since World War Two has destroyed some Ukrainian cities and sent more than 3 million refugees fleeing abroad.
The streets of the capital Kyiv were largely empty on Wednesday after authorities imposed a curfew overnight. Several buildings in a residential area were badly damaged after what appeared to be a Russian missile was shot down in the early hours of Wednesday, residents and emergency workers said.
There was no immediate word on casualties as a rescue team searched for signs of life amid the rubble. Surrounding streets were covered with broken glass from hundreds of windows and what appeared to be a motor from the missile lay twisted on the roadside.
Still, Ukrainian forces have withstood an assault by a much larger army. Zelenskiy said Ukrainian troops had killed a fourth Russian major general in the latest fighting. Reuters was not immediately able to verify this.
"The occupiers were not successful today, although they threw thousands of their people into battle, in the north, in the east, in the south of our state. The enemy lost equipment, hundreds more soldiers. A lot of dead Russian conscripts, dozens of officers."
Ukraine said about 20,000 people had escaped the besieged port of Mariupol in cars, but hundreds of thousands remain trapped under bombardment without heat, power or water.
Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said it was not clear whether the corridor to the city would open on Wednesday. She said 400 staff and patients hostage were being held hostage at a hospital Russian forces had captured in Mariupol on Tuesday.
Russia was due to pay $117 million in interest on dollar-denominated sovereign bonds, but could be forced to pay in roubles instead, amounting to its first default on foreign debt since the Bolshevik revolution. Moscow said it has the money, and Washington would be to blame if it cannot pay.

WASHINGTON, March 16 (Reuters) - In the days after the Jan. 6, 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol, dozens of companies said they would suspend political donations to Republican lawmakers who had backed then-President Donald Trump's baseless claims of fraud in the 2020 election.

More than one year later, Republicans in the House of Representatives who voted to challenge the election results have so far collected about half as much corporate cash as they did at this point in the previous election cycle, a Reuters analysis of campaign finance records shows.

By contrast, corporate donations are up about 10% to House Republicans who voted to certify President Joe Biden's victory over Trump.

The results indicate that the corporate boycott is not just limited to the dozens of companies that announced a halt to donations after the attack. Hundreds more have also scaled back their support, the Reuters analysis shows.

The shift illustrates the growing gulf between business interests and the right wing of the Republican Party, which under Trump's presidency grew more anti-establishment and more open to curbs on global trade and technology that would have been anathema in previous years.

"You've got members that are increasingly unmoored from commercial corporate interests and are more responsive to either a small number of very wealthy, deep-pocketed donors, or a large number of culture war-activated base voters," said Jon Lieber, a former staffer for Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell now at the Eurasia Group, an analysis firm.

The drop in corporate donations is unlikely to affect Republican prospects in the November congressional elections. The party is favored to win control of the House and possibly the Senate, in part due to Biden's sagging popularity, and because few Republican incumbents face competitive races of their own.

Reuters analyzed the 2021 campaign finance disclosures of 142 House Republicans who are running for re-election in November and were in office throughout the last election cycle. The analysis included both re-election funds and those raised by leadership committees, which lawmakers use to finance other political activities. The analysis focused on the House of Representatives where most Republicans voted against certifying Biden's victory, compared to only eight Republicans in the Senate.

Fundraising by the House Republicans remains robust - about $200 million in 2021. Both objectors and non-objectors to Biden's win brought in more money than in 2019.

Corporate dollars - which don't come directly from company coffers but are contributed by employees to fundraising groups controlled by the corporations - made up about a tenth of that 2021 amount. Their role in campaign finance has diminished over the last decade as the advent of online fundraising has made it easy to solicit donations from rank-and-file voters. read more

Lawmakers who objected to Biden's 2020 victory raised around $9 million from corporate groups in 2021, less than half of the roughly $19 million raised in 2019. Corporate money raised by those who did not object rose to about $14 million last year from nearly $13 million in 2019.

NO REGRETS

Even before the Jan. 6 attack, many companies steered clear of some of the most confrontational partisans.

Representative Matt Gaetz, who frequently appeared on cable television to praise Trump, raised only about $30,000 from corporate sources in 2019, out of the $1 million he netted in total.

He took in no money from corporate political action committees (PACs) in 2021 after voting to challenge the election results - but he raised about $4 million overall. His office did not respond to a request for comment.

Others have taken a steeper hit.

Representative Mike Kelly, a senior member of the powerful tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, collected about $460,000 in corporate donations in 2019.

But after the Pennsylvania Republican launched an unsuccessful lawsuit to overturn Biden's victory in his state and voted against certifying the election result on Jan. 6, he took in just over $110,000 in corporate donations last year - about 75% less.

Melanie Brewer, Kelly's campaign manager, said he did not regret his vote.

"While fundraising was difficult for many Republicans in 2021, it was more important that he reflected the values and ideals of his district," she said.

The chamber's top two Republicans, Kevin McCarthy and Steve Scalise, also saw steep drops in their corporate donations after voting against the Jan. 6 results. Neither responded to a request for comment.

However, companies continue to give to Republican election accounts that will help the wider party, helping these accounts keep up with fundraising by Democrats.

The National Republican Congressional Committee raised $140 million overall in 2021, on par with the $146 million raised by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Both groups raised more in 2021 than in 2019.

TECH, FINANCE FIRMS CUT OFF SUPPORT

The drop in corporate support for those who challenged the election masks significant differences among industries.

Eight of the largest corporate donors ahead of the 2020 election have cut off donations entirely to those who challenged the election results, records show.

Those companies are all in technology, finance or consumer goods - Alphabet Inc's (GOOGL.O) Google, Microsoft Corp (MSFT.O), Lowe's Companies Inc (LOW.N), Morgan Stanley (MS.N), Bank of America Corp (BAC.N), Prudential Financial Inc (PRU.N), Citigroup Inc (C.N) and General Electric Co .

All either did not respond to a request for comment or declined to comment. Most of them announced in early 2021 they were suspending contributions to those who challenged the election results.

Donating to those lawmakers "could really incite a bunch of their key stakeholders - like employees, suppliers, customers and so on," said Russell Crook, an expert on corporate political activity at the University of Tennessee.

Some announced boycotts, only to abandon them.

Walmart Inc (WMT.N), which did not make any contributions in 2021 to the objectors, gave them $10,000 in January, split between McCarthy, Scalise and two others who voted against accepting the results.

Walmart spokesman Randy Hargrove said the company changed its stance because it felt it could better advocate for its interests "by engaging with policymakers from both parties."

By contrast, many defense contractors, whose profits depend on spending decisions made in Congress, have continued their support of all Republicans, whether or not they challenged the election results.

Two of them - Boeing Co (BA.N) and BAE Systems PLC (BAES.L) - actually increased their donations to those who voted to challenge the election.

Boeing did not respond to a request for comment and BAE declined to comment.

Rock Holdings Inc, the parent company of mortgage lender Rocket Mortgage, roughly doubled its contribution to objectors in 2021, to at least $97,000. The company did not respond to a request for comment.

Boeing, BAE and Rock also increased donations to those who did not object to the election result.

Some Republican lawmakers reacted angrily last year when corporate representatives told them they would not get their support, according to a Republican strategist who directs business donations to lawmakers.

But those tensions have eased in recent months as Republicans have grown more confident of victory and less interested in picking fights with possible allies, the strategist said, speaking on condition of anonymity.

AHMEDABAD, India, March 16 (Reuters) - India on Wednesday started administering doses of the COVID-19 vaccine to young people aged 12 to 14 as public and private schools re-opened.

The government aims to swiftly expand vaccine coverage by also dropping a restriction on booster doses for those older than 60 only if they had a co-morbidity condition.

"Today is an important day in India's efforts to vaccinate our citizens," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter.

The children, estimated by the government to number 50 million, will receive the Corbevax vaccine, made by Biological E, a domestic firm that secured emergency approval for its use in children.

The vaccine would be priced at 800 Indian rupees ($10.51) in the private market but would be sold to the Indian government at a reduced price of 145 Indian rupees ($1.90), Biological E Managing Director Mahima Datla told a news conference on Wednesday.

Datla said the company had provided 50 million doses of Corbevax to the Indian government and another 25 million would be supplied soon.

Wednesday's 2,876 new infections took India's tally of COVID-19 cases to 42,998,938, while the number of active cases dipped to 32,811, the health ministry said. The death toll stood at 516,072.

($1 = 76.1340 Indian rupees)